        Neral Matheran Toy Train is a heritage railway that connects Neral to Matheran via a 21-kilometre railway line. It is a two feet narrow gauge railway built by Adamjee Peerbhoy in early 1900 and is now run by the Central Railways. It serves as an interesting mode of transport to explore the Western Ghats of India. The Matheran Toy Train is currently dysfunctional as it was discontinued in 2019 after getting derailed. It is, however, expected to start again by the end of 2020.

         Louisa Point is one of the most famous viewpoints in Matheran. It offers two different views from the top - one view is of the sky touching the mountain and a panoramic view of the valley below. The other view is of the picturesque Charlotte Lake looking like a diamond necklace.

         Also known as the Sharlott lake, Charlotte Lake is one of the most spectacular attractions of Matheran. It is an ideal quick retreat for those who seek silence in the lap of nature and a perfect spot for the campers and picnickers. Set amidst a densely populated forest, birdwatching is a popular activity here. Visit Charlotte Lake during sunrise and sunset to catch scenic view of Echo Point. On one side of the lake is an archaic temple of Lord Shiva - Pisharnath Mahadev Mandir.


         Monkey point of Matheran is located in the state of Maharashtra. This unique destination overlooks beautiful scenery of the Western Ghats and its intimidating mountains and deep gorges. As the name suggests, this place is often frequented by gangs of monkeys. This destination also has abundant quantities of indigenous flora and fauna and makes up for an interesting way to learn about the local weather and vegetation. You can also experience the phenomenon of echoing here if you shout out into the mountains while facing the Hart Cliff.

        
        Shivaji's ladder is a pathway with the steps in the shape of a ladder. Surrounded by lush green woods, it is one of the most popular trekking points in Matheran. It is said that Maratha Emperor Chhatrapati Shivaji used this pathway for his hunting trip in Matheran.
           
         Manorama point is a scenic point in Matheran that offers 360-degree panoramic views of the Western Ghats and the verdant plains dotted with villages far below. An ideal picnic spot, this place is comparatively less crowded than other points in Matheran as it requires one to trek. One can also take a horse which will take around one hour from the main city or take the Neral-Matheran toy train and trek for 2 kilometres on a rocky path. Panorama Point is a magnet for photo fanatic and adventure seekers as it offers gorgeous sunset and sunrise views, view of clouds, valley, lake and peaks.
        
        One tree hill point in Matheran is one of the most scenic viewpoints in Maharashtra. It is named so because it has just one tree growing on top of the hill. The one tree hill viewpoint affords a panoramic and unobstructed view of the deep valleys and stretching forests that surround the hill station of Matheran. It is also famous for trekking.
        

       Ambarnath Temple is a historic Hindu temple dedicated to Lord Shiva. Located at Ambarnath near Mumbai, it was built in 1060. The temple complex has a stark resemblance to the Dilwara Temples located in Mount Abu. The stunning architecture of the temple complex is a treat to the eyes. The annual festival of Mahashivratri is celebrated with great enthusiasm in the temple.

     The Honeymoon Point is a viewpoint in Matheran which is famous the Grand Canyon of India. The stunning view of the mountains and the nearby Prabalgad Frt from this point is simply breathtaking. Honeymoon Point is the biggest valley crossing point of Matheran which makes it important for adventure enthusiasts.
      
     
       Dhodani Waterfalls is one of the most picturesque waterfalls situated in Matheran. A popular picnic spot among both the locals and the tourists, the waterfalls also has the option for several water sports, the most popular of which is waterfall rappelling. If you are an adventure enthusiast, this is one activity that you should definitely try while you are here.

       
     Paymaster Park is a recreational park and a famous picnic spot in the mesmerising town of Matheran. The beautifully landscaped gardens, the colourful and fragrant flower beds and the gazebo in the middle of the mesmerizing park are a treat to the nature lovers. The park also has effigies of Lieutenant Colonel Paymaster and S.L Panday installed in their honour.


     Khandala Point is one of the most preferred points in Matheran to get a good view of the scenic beauty of the location. Due to its proximity to the main road and the market, it often gets many visitors. This is a perfect point to view the beautiful valley when on a time crunch.